# fossjobs man page input file
# Copyright (C) 2007-2013 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#

=head1 NAME

fossjobs - Run fossology agents on an uploaded file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fossjobs [-a] [-h] [-u] [-v] [-A <string>] [-U <upload-id>] [-D <upload-id>] 
         [--username <string>] [--password <string>] [-c configuration directory]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

fossjobs is a command line fossology utility that can be used to list
the available default agents or upload id's.  Using that information,
fossjobs can be used to schedule all the default agents or a subset of
them for a given upload id.  This effectivly creates a job and
schedules the agents to perform their analysis on the upload id given.

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-a>

List the available default agents.

=item B<-h>

Standard help flag, prints usage.

=item B<--username> I<username>

username, specify the username for a user who has the priviledge to execute cp2foss.
Also you can add one file .fossology.rc in your current home directory, add user name and
password in 2 seperate line.

=item B<--password> I<password>

password, specify the password for a user who has the priviledge to execute cp2foss.
Also you can add one file .fossology.rc in your current home directory, add user name and
password in 2 seperate line.

=item B<-c> I<configuration directory>

Specify the directory for the system configuration, 
when installation from src, default dir is /usr/local/etc/fossology/ ,
when installation from package, default dir is /etc/fossology/.
This defaults to your last installation location.

=item B<-u>

List the available upload id's.

=item B<-v>

Verbose output

=item B<-A <string>>

This option can be used to run a subset of the default
agents.  The subset is specified using a comma separated list of
agents.  To display the available agents, use -a.  To schedule all
default agents, do not set this option.

=item B<-U <upload-id>>

The upload id to schedule the agents to work on.  To
find an upload id use -u.  The upload-id string can be a
comma-separated list of upload ids. Or, use 'ALL' to specify all
upload ids.

=item B<-D <upload-id>>

The upload id to schedule the delete agents to work on.  To
find an upload id use -u.  The string can either be 'ALL', a 
string (the upload_id), or an array of upload_id's if multiple 
-D's were specified.

=back

=head2 Examples

list all of the available agents

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -a


list the upload id's

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -u

schedule a subset of the agents (unpack and nomos) on an upload id.

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -A "agent_unpack,agent_nomos" -U 20

schedule all the agents using a priority of 5 on upload id 20

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -U 20 -P 5

schedule all upload id's with all default agents

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -U ALL

schedule delete task for all upload id

  fossjobs --username USER --password PASSWORD -D ALL

=head1 Authors

Neal Krawetz and Mark Donohoe


