# fossched man page input file
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# VERSION: $Id: foss-scheduler.pod 548 2008-05-03 01:37:52Z rrando $
#

=head1 NAME

foss-scheduler - The fossology scheduler daemon.  This daemon runs the
fossogy job input queue and agents.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

/usr/local/fossology/agents/foss-scheduler [options] [setup.conf] < 'type command'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the fossology job scheduler.  When an upload is analyzed by
fossology it is the scheduler that takes the upload and schedules a
number of agents to operate on that upload.  The most basic agents do
things like unpack the archive and store it in the repository and the
data-base.  Other agents perform tasks like license analysis, and
meta-data analysis.

The scheduler uses a configuration file to schedule the agents.  This
allows for flexible scheduling depending on the machines resources
available.  Usually the agent configuration file is created when
fossology is installed.  If setup.conf is not specified then
/usr/local/share/fossology/agents/foss-scheduler.conf is used.

Advanced users or programmers adding agents to the system may need to
regenerate this file or edit it directly.  A custom file can also be
used.

setup.conf: defines each engine -- one 'type command' per line
FIXME: need a better description of 'type command', may need to tweak sked
doc as well.

stdin lists type+data, one per line.

stdout comes from threads, non-interlaced and only when thread ends.

stderr comes from threads, interlaced and immediate.

Each command is executed as a running engine.
Each stdin line is matched to a free engine of the same type.
If no engine is free, then it will pause until one is available.

For a detailed disucssion of foss-scheduler see [[scheduler]] under
Developer Docs on the fossology home page.

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-i>

Initialize the database, then exit.

=item B<-k>

Kill all running schedulers (on this system).
B<-k> kills the foss-scheduler itself.  All other options are ignored.


=item B<-d>

Run as a daemon.  This is the standard way of starting the scheduler by hand.
When invoked as a daemon, B<foss-scheduler> still generates stdout and stderr.

=item B<-H>

Ignore hosts for host-specific agent requests.

=item B<-I>

Use stdin and queue.  The default is to use the queue only.  This option is
useful if when debugging foss-scheduler itself.

=item B<-v>

verbose (-v -v is more verbose).  This will produce a lot of output that
can be useful when debugging or trying to see why an agent is dying.  If the
output is going to a log file, the file can get really large fast.  Plan on
the appropriate amount of space.

=item B<-L log>

Send stdout and stderr to log.  It is always a good idea to log the
scheduler output.  Typically this is already done for you when
fossology is started.  When starting B<foss-scheduler> by hand this
option should be specified, or there will be no log output, (only to
stdin/stderr).


=item B<-q>

Turn off show stages.  (FIXME: Need a better description)


=item B<-R>

Reset the job queue in case something was hung.

=item B<-t>

Test every agent to see if it runs, then quit.

=item B<-T>

Test every agent to see if it runs, then continue if no problems.

=back

=head1 Examples

Stop the scheduler.  Below is the standard way to stop foss-scheduler.  This is
usually done with sudo.

   sudo /etc/init.d/fossology stop

Start the scheduler, checking the sched.conf file for problems. This is useful
when changes have been made to the sched.conf file and one wants to verify that
all agents will run with the new file.

   sudo /usr/local/fossology/agents/foss-scheduler -t

Start the scheduler using a log and verbose

   sudo /usr/local/fossology/agents/foss-scheduler -v -d -L /tmp/foss-scheduler.log

=head1 Author

Neal Krawetz


