# cp2foss.pod man page input file
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# VERSION: $Id$

=head1 NAME

cp2foss - load one or more files or archives into the Fossology Data-Base.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 Usage: cp2foss [options] [archives]
 Options: -AQThv [-f path] [-AA num] [-q {agent,agent.. | all}] [-X path]
 [-n name] [-d descritpion]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cp2foss> (copy to foss) will load a single file or tar'ed archive into the
folder path specified by B<-f>.
The folders in the I<folder-path> do not need to exist. B<cp2foss>
will create them as needed.

Archives can be a file, directory or URL to the archive. If the archive
is a URL, then it is retrieved and added. If the archive is a file, then
it is used as the source to add. If the archive is a directory, then I<all>
files under it are recursively added.

A single hyphen means the archive list will come from standard in (stdin).

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-A>

Turn on I<alpha-folders>.  Default is B<off>. When large amounts of
archives are loaded, navigating through all the folders can be
difficult.  This option will group packages under alpha folders based
on the 1st letter of the package name.  For example, your folder path
is I<ProjX/pass1/>.  Using alpha-folders the
archive C<andyroid> would end up under a folder path I<ProjX/pass/a-c/andyroid>.

=item B<-AA num>

Specify the number of letters per folder (default: 3); implies -A. For
example, using the default, the alpha folders would be a-c, d-f, g-i and
so on.

=item B<-Q>

List all available processing agents.  All of the agents listed can
be used with the B<-q> option or a subset of them.  See B<-q> for more details.

=item B<-T>

TEST. No database or repository updates are performed. Test mode enables
verbose mode.  This is a trial run of the actions that cp2foss will do.

=item B<-X>

Item to exclude when archive is a directory. You can specify more than one -X.
For example, to exclude all svn and cvs directories, include the following
before the archive's directory path: -X .svn -X .cvs

=item B<-d> I<description>

A short meaningful description the captures what the upload folder will contain.
Description must be quoted with either single or double quotes.

=item B<-f> I<path>

folder path for storing uploaded files (e.g., -f 'Fedora/ISOs/Disk 1'). You do not
need to specify  the top or root folder I</Software Repository>.
All paths are under I</Software Repository>.  If I</Software Repository> is
used in the folder path, B<cp2foss> will correctly create all of the other
other folders in the path under the top folder.

=item B<-h>

Help, prints a verbose usage message.

=item B<-n> I<name>

An optoinal name that will be used to store the upload in the
data-base.  The default is to name the upload using the name that was uploaded.

=item B<-q> I<agent-list | all>

Indicate what processing agents to use in analyzing the upload. The list is
specified as a comma-separated list of agents, (use -Q to display the list
of agents), or the word I<all>.  If -q is not used, the item will still be
uploaded and unpacked.  To schedule agent jobs later see B<fossjobs> or
use the FOSSology web interface.

=item B<-v>

Verbose.  Supply lots of feedback.  B<-T> turns this on automatically.

=back

=head2 Depricated Options

=over

=item B<-a> I<archive>

See B<Description> above.

=item B<-p> I<path>

see B<-f>

=item B<-R>

Ignored.

=item B<-w>

Ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

C<cp2foss -f Folder1 -d 'the first file' /tmp/file1 \
           -d 'the second file' /tmp/file2 \>

Would load the archives I<file1> and I<file2> in the folder I<Folder> using the
supplied descriptions for each upload.

C<cp2foss -q all -pUbuntu -n GGibon -d 'Ubuntu Gutsy 7.10' 'http://ubuntu.cs.utah.edu/releases/gutsy/ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso' >

The above example, B<cp2foss> will first get the archive using wget.  It will
then load the downloaded archive into the data-base.

C<cp2foss -pFedora/Fedora8 -n Fedora8  -d 'Fedora 8 Sources' -X .svn -X .cvs /bigdisk/fedora>

This example loads every file except directories named .svn and .cvs under
/bigdisk/fedora on the server into the data-base.

=head1 AUTHOR

Neal Krawetz/Mark Donohoe for the Hewlett-Packard Company

=head1 SEE ALSO

wget

