# fo_notify man page input file
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# VERSION: $Id:  $
#

=head1 NAME

fo_notify - Display upload job status.  Optionally send email.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fo_notify [-e email-address] [-h] [-j <job-name>] [-n user-name]  -u <upload-id> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fo_notify> is a dual purpose command. The main purpose of
B<fo_notify. is to act as the email notification agent when email notificiation is
turned on for a user account in the Graphical User Interface. The status is 
send in email and is reported as aborted, failed, still active or done based on the job queue 
data-base entries for that upload.  The command can also be run as a cli to
report the status of the upload or send email about it's status.  

The command simply queues the email on the system.  The command assumes that email
has been configured properly on the system. 

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-e email-address>

Supply an optional email address to send the results to.  If this option is
given, then no output to the terminal will be supplied.  The results are queued
in the mail subsystem using the specified address.  Minimal checking is done 
on the email address format, make sure it's correct.

=item B<-h>

Standard help flag, prints usage.

=item B<-j <job-name>

Optional job name.  Using this option will change the name of the job in the message.
The job name supplied will be used instead of the name that was used for the upload 
at upload time.

=item B<-n <user-name>>

Supply a different user name for the message.  This simply changes the name of the 
addressee in the message that is sent via email.  If no email is being sent, this
option has no effect. NOTE, this is not the email address. 

For example, if the user login is goofy, but the user 
wants to address the message to the real name of the person.  
Using the above example, without -n <user-name> would mean
that the message starts with Dear goofy, ..... using -n 'Mr. Natural' would change
the message to say Dear Mr. Natural,.....  

=item B<-u <upload-id>>

The upload id to report on.  Use B<fossjobs> to find the upload id or the UI.

=back

=head2 Examples

Display the job status for upload 99.

fo_notify -u 99

would report the status of upload 99.

send email instead

fo_notify -e me@somebody.com -u 99

Would queue email to me@somebody.com with the results for upload 99.

=head1 Authors

Mark Donohoe


