# fossjobs man page input file
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# VERSION: $Id: fossjobs.pod 1573 2008-10-28 05:28:11Z taggart $
#

=head1 NAME

fossjobs - Display default fossology agents or upload id's and schedule default
fossology agents on an upload id.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fossjobs [-a] [-h] [-u] [-v] [-A <string>] [-U <upload-id>] [-P priority] [--user <string>] [--password <string>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

fossjobs is a command line fossology utility that can be used to list
the available default agents or upload id's.  Using that information,
fossjobs can be used to schedule all the default agents or a subset of
them for a given upload id.  This effectivly creates a job and
schedules the agents to perform their analysis on the upload id given.

Additionally, the priority can be set for that upload id/job.  The
agents will run at the priority set, or 0 if none supplied (the
default).

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-a>

List the available default agents.

=item B<-h>

Standard help flag, prints usage.

=item B<--user> I<username>

username, specify the username for a user who has the priviledge to execute cp2foss.
Also you can add one file .fossology.rc in your current home directory, add user name and
password in 2 seperate line.

=item B<--password> I<password>

password, specify the password for a user who has the priviledge to execute cp2foss.
Also you can add one file .fossology.rc in your current home directory, add user name and
password in 2 seperate line.

=item B<-u>

List the available upload id's.

=item B<-v>

Verbose output

=item B<-A <string>>

This option can be used to run a subset of the default
agents.  The subset is specified using a comma separated list of
agents.  To display the available agents, use -a.  To schedule all
default agents, do not set this option.

=item B<-P <priority>>

The priority for the job/agents.  The default priority
if none is supplied is zero (0).  Priorities can be negative or
positive.  A negative priority will have less priority than zero.
Additionally, larger negative numbers will have less priority than
smaller negative numbers.  The highest priority is 10.

=item B<-U <upload-id>>

The upload id to schedule the agents to work on.  To
find an upload id use -u.  The upload-id string can be a
comma-separated list of upload ids. Or, use 'ALL' to specify all
upload ids.

=back

=head2 Examples

list all of the available agents

  fossjobs --user USER --password PASSWORD -a


list the upload id's

  fossjobs --user USER --password PASSWORD -u

schedule a subset of the agents (unpack and nomos) on an upload id.

  fossjobs --user USER --password PASSWORD -A "agent_unpack,agent_nomos" -U 20

schedule all the agents using a priority of 5 on upload id 20

  fossjobs --user USER --password PASSWORD -U 20 -P 5

schedule all upload id's with all default agents

fossjobs --user USER --password PASSWORD -U ALL

=head1 Authors

Neal Krawetz and Mark Donohoe


