#/***********************************************************
# get-projects.php
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
# modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
# version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
# with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
# 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
# ***********************************************************/
# Version: "$Id: $"

=head1 NAME

get-projects: Process a Freshmeat Rdf format XML file and get the projects
in that file from Freashmeat using wget.
YOU ARE NOT DONE TILL THIS LINE IS REMOVED!

=head1 SYNOPSIS

get-projects [-h] -f <file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<get-projects> reads an uncompressed XML file in Freshmeat Rdf format and
attempts to get each project in the file from the Freshmeat site using 
B<wget>.

While processing the XML file, B<get-projects> creates a number of output files.

All of the archives are placed in a directory called I<golden.yyyymmdd> where
yyyymmdd is the year month day the program was run.  In the golden directory are
3 other directories used to store log or input files.

At the end of processing B<get-projects> prints a summary of it's efforts on
standard out.

Getting the archives can take a lot of space.  B<get-projects> gets the path
for the golden directories from an environment variable in the makefile Makefile.utils.
The path is site specific and so the makefile B<must> be adjusted based on
your site.

=over

=item I<wget-logs>

Stores all of the wget logs.  These logs are needed to determine if the wget
was successful.

=item I<Log-Data>

Contains files that record the wgets that failed and uploads that were skipped.
The file names are I<failed-wgets> and I<skipped_uploads>.  The format for
the I<failed-wgets> file is the package rank, name and archive on each line 
seperated by spaces.  The format for the I<skipped_uploads> file is the project name
and the path to the archive, both in single quotes seperated by a space.

=back
 
=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-h>

Standard help flag. Displays the usage message.

=item B<-f> I<file>

Fully qualified path to the XML file.

=back

=head1 NOTES

B<get-projects> is used as part of the suite of programs that process Freshmeat archives.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Process the XML file

get-projects -f ./loadthis.rdf

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Donohoe for the Hewlett-Packard Company

=head1 SEE ALSO

mktop1k(1), diffm(1), Readme and wiki.

