#/***********************************************************
# get-projects.php
# Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
# modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
# version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
# with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
# 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
# ***********************************************************/
# Version: "$Id: $"

=head1 NAME

mktop1k: extract the top 1000 entries from the Freshmeat Rdf file into
a file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

mktop1k [-h] -i <in-file> -o <out-file> [-n nnn]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mktop1k> by default extracts the top 1000 projects from a Freshmeat Rdf and 
places the XML for those projects into a file for further processing. Any number
of projects can be extracted by using the B<-n> command.

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-h>

Standard help flag, prints the usage message.

=item B<-i> I<in-file>

The fully qaulified path to the Freshmeat Resource Definition File.

=item B<-o> I<out-file>

The fully qualified path where the output from B<mktop1k> should be saved.

=item B<-n> I<nnn>

Optional parameter to specify how many projects to exract.  Default is 1000.

=back

=head1 NOTES

B<mktop1k> is part of the suite of programs used to process Freshmeat projects.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Extract the top 1000 projects into the file top1000.

mktop1k -i ./freshmeat.rdf -o /tmp/top1000

Extract the top 50 project into the file top-50.

mktop1k -i ./freshmeat.rdf -o /tmp/top-50 -n 50

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Donohoe for Hewlett-Packard Company

=head1 SEE ALSO

get-projects(1), diffm(1), Readme and wiki for the Freshmeat process.

